Correction Framework and Uncertainty Propagation================================================Overview--------The ``iso_process`` pipeline applies sequential analytical corrections to rawGC-IRMS isotope measurements. Each correction step modifies both the isotopevalue and its associated uncertainty. Uncertainty is propagated analyticallythroughout the workflow using first-order error propagation.The correction sequence is:1. Drift correction  2. Linearity correction  3. VSMOW normalization  4. Optional methanol correction  5. Final uncertainty aggregation  All corrections assume normally distributed, independent errors.Drift Correction----------------Purpose^^^^^^^Corrects for temporal instrumental drift during the analytical run.Model^^^^^Measured residuals for drift standards are modeled as:.. math::    r(t) = \delta_{meas}(t) - \delta_{true} = a t + bA linear regression is performed against analysis time.Application^^^^^^^^^^^For each sample:.. math::    \delta_{drift} = \delta_{meas} - (a t + b)Uncertainty Propagation^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^Drift model uncertainty is calculated using the covariance matrix of theregression coefficients:.. math::    \sigma_{drift}^2 = \mathbf{x}^T \Sigma_{\beta} \mathbf{x}where :math:`\mathbf{x} = [t, 1]`.Total variance after drift:.. math::    \sigma_1^2 = \sigma_{meas}^2 + \sigma_{drift}^2Linearity Correction--------------------Purpose^^^^^^^Corrects amplitude-dependent bias in isotope measurements.Model^^^^^Residuals are regressed against peak area or amplitude:Linear model:.. math::    r = \alpha A + \betaOptional parabolic model:.. math::    r = \alpha A^2 + \beta A + \gammaApplication^^^^^^^^^^^.. math::    \delta_{lin} = \delta_{drift} - f(A)Uncertainty Propagation^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^Prediction variance:.. math::    \sigma_{lin}^2 = \mathbf{x}^T \Sigma_{\beta} \mathbf{x}Total:.. math::    \sigma_2^2 = \sigma_1^2 + \sigma_{lin}^2VSMOW Normalization-------------------Purpose^^^^^^^Places isotope measurements on the international VSMOW scale.Model^^^^^Linear scaling:.. math::    \delta_{VSMOW} = m \cdot \delta_{lin} + cUncertainty Propagation^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^.. math::    \sigma_3^2 =    m^2 \sigma_2^2 +    \mathbf{x}^T \Sigma_{m,c} \mathbf{x}Methanol Correction (Optional)------------------------------Purpose^^^^^^^Corrects methylated compounds for isotopic contribution of methanol.Hydrogen isotope formulation:.. math::    \delta_{acid} =    \frac{    \delta_{FAME} (2C_n + 2) - 3\delta_{MeOH}    }{2C_n}Uncertainty Propagation^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^.. math::    \sigma^2 =    \left(\frac{2C_n+2}{2C_n}\right)^2 \sigma_{FAME}^2 +    \left(\frac{3}{2C_n}\right)^2 \sigma_{MeOH}^2Final Uncertainty-----------------The final reported uncertainty is the quadratic sum of all propagatedvariance components:.. math::    \sigma_{final} =    \sqrt{    \sigma_{drift}^2 +    \sigma_{lin}^2 +    \sigma_{VSMOW}^2 +    \sigma_{methanol}^2    }Assumptions-----------* Errors are normally distributed.* Correction stages are treated as independent.* First-order Taylor expansion is used for propagation.* Regression uncertainty is derived from parameter covariance matrices.